+++
date = '2025-01-14T08:00:49+01:00'
draft = false
title = 'Organic geometry'
+++
## What's in a word

Rene Desargues (1591-1661), inspired by the advent of perspective painting
in the Renaissance, 
discovered a strange new geometry, which he left unnamed.
Although it vanished almost without a trace soon after his death, it reappeared in the 
19th century and became an central pillar of modern mathematics.

In the course of its development, it has been variously named
projective, synthetic, higher, or simply the new geometry, all names
mirror the manifold aspects that that this development has revealed.
However, it was not until the book 
"Introduction to organic geometry" by Heinrich Gretschel (1830-1892) appeared in 1868
that an adequate name was found doing justice to the intimate way in which
geometric entities are interwoven in this geometry. 

This website is devoted in the first place to informing and educating the public about organic geometry,
its history, development, contents, and current state, through articles, blogs, e-books, interactive demos, videos, and discussion forums. 

Beyond that, we are convinced that organic geometry can be a vital source of new thought forms for penetrating into the
workings of the organic world and of the human being, workings that are currently only partly represented by
the current paradigm. In this movement towards the future we are supported by the previouos work of a small
but inspired group of pioneers. 


I find, however, that the theorem connects itself in a somewhat
interesting way with that general conception of geometrical
facts which regards all the properties of a curve or other
continuous figure as depending upon its order alone, and which
it has become usual to call Synthetic Geometry. I am not 
satisfied with the word, and use it under protest for want of a
better. The thing should be more widely known than it is in
this country; the simplicity and instructiveness of its application
in the present case are my reasons for calling attention
to a matter otherwise unimportant. Those who are of the mind
of Herr Gretschel may substitute for the words "Synthetic
Proof," "Proof by Organic Geometry."

William Clifford, "Synthetic Proof of Miguel's Theorem", 1870
